1. Rev Med Chil. 2019 Oct;147(10):1291-1302. doi: 10.4067/s0034-98872019001001291.

[Gender differences in clinical features and performance of sleep questionnaires 
in adults with obstructive sleep apnea syndrome].

BACKGROUND: Women with obstructive sleep apnea-hypopnea syndrome (OSAS) are less 
likely to be assessed or to receive an appropriate diagnosis, and they may have
poorer quality of life and survival rates.
AIM: To assess gender-specific clinical differences in adult patients with OSAS.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A standardized clinical questionnaire and four sleep
questionnaires (Berlin, Epworth Sleepiness Scale, STOP and STOP-Bang) were
administered and anthropometric data were measured. Patients underwent an
overnight in-laboratory polysomnography to confirm the diagnosis of OSAS.
Receiver operating characteristic curves, sensitivity and specificity of clinical
manifestations and sleep questionnaires were calculated.
RESULTS: Of 1,464 screened patients, 509 were female, 58.6% had moderate to
severe OSAS. Clinical variables associated with OSAS risk in women were age,
insomnia, nocturia, hypertension and cervical circumference. Paired by age and
respiratory events, the snoring frequency was similar in both genders, although
witnessed apneas and high cervical circumference and waist/hip ratio were more
common in males. Morning headaches, insomnia, excessive daytime sleepiness,
depression, anxiety and poor quality of sleep were more common in women. Women
were older than men, more obese (although with an obesity pattern less centrally 
distributed) and referred hypertension, diabetes, depression and hypothyroidism
with higher frequency. Sleep questionnaires performance were similar in both
sexes.
CONCLUSIONS: It is likely that women with OSAS may partially be underdiagnosed
due to circumstances related to a different OSAS clinical expression.

DOI: 10.4067/s0034-98872019001001291 
PMID: 32186637  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Rev Med Chil. 2019 Oct;147(10):1256-1265. doi: 10.4067/s0034-98872019001001256.

[Features of patients with trauma admitted to an emergency room of a general
hospital].

BACKGROUND: Trauma is the main cause of death among people aged 5 to 44 years.
AIM: To describe features, treatment and evolution of trauma patients admitted to
an emergency room.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Adult patients admitted in the emergency department of a
public hospital due to severe trauma were studied and followed during their
hospital stay.
RESULTS: We included 114 patients aged 40 ± 17 years (78%men) with an injury
severity score of 21 ± 11. Trauma was penetrating in 43%. Traumatic brain injury 
(TBI) was the most common diagnosis in 46%. In the emergency room, 8% had
hypotension, 5% required vasopressors and 23% required mechanical ventilation.
The initial lactate was 3.6 ± 2.9 mmol/L. Sixty-five patients (57%) required
emergency surgery. The intraoperative lactate was 3 ± 1.7 mmol/L and 20% required
vasopressors. Sixty-four patients (56%) were admitted to the ICU, with APACHEII
and SOFA scores of 16 ± 8 and 5 ± 3, respectively. ICU lactate was 3.2±1.5
mmol/L. In the ICU 40% required vasopressors and 63% mechanical ventilation.
Thirty two percent had coagulopathy, 43% received transfusions and 10% required
massive transfusions. The hospital stay was 13 (6-32) days, being significantly
longer in patients with TBI. ICU and hospital mortalities were 12.5 and 18.4%
respectively. The only predictor for mortality was the APACHEII score (Hazard
Ratio 1.18, 95% confidence intervals 1.03-1.36).
CONCLUSIONS: APACHE score was a predictor of mortality in this group of patients.

DOI: 10.4067/s0034-98872019001001256 
PMID: 32186633  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Psychiatr Danub. 2019 Dec;31(Suppl 5):774-780.

Factors Contributing to the Reduction of Pain during Electromyography and Nerve
Conduction Studies.

BACKGROUND: Electromyography (EMG) and nerve conduction studies (NCS) are an
unpleasant and sometimes painful examinations. Pain can reduce patient's
compliance and have a negative effect on the examination results. Different
studies report that music affects pain perception by acting as a distractor, by
inducing positive emotional valence or through the concept of convergence of
different sensory modalities. The aim of this study was to explore the effect of 
music and different environmental and sociodemographic factors on pain perception
during EMG and NCS.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Sixty patients with suspected neuromuscular disease were
randomized into music and control group. Specific questionnaire assessed
sociodemographic characteristics, medical history, examination waiting time,
examination extent and biometeorological forecast. The numerical rating scale was
used for the evaluation of pain. The examiner evaluated patient's compliance
after the examination.
RESULTS: NCS was less painful for patients in the music group (p=0.03), as well
as for more cooperative patients (p=0.011). For patients who previously underwent
EMG/NCS, present NCS was more painful (p=0.001), regardless of the music
intervention (p=0.019). EMG was more painful for older patients (p=0.041).
Patients with lower level of education reported lower pain during NCS (p=0.026). 
Gender, financial satisfaction, biometeorological forecast, diabetes, depression 
or malignant disease, use and dosing of analgesics or antidepressants, symptoms, 
examination waiting time and the examination extent had no effect on pain
perception.
CONCLUSIONS: Music significantly decreased the perception of pain associated with
NCS, but not the EMG portion of the examination. During EMG pain level was not
significantly reduced, but the median of pain was still lower. Generally, the
pain level during NCS, unlike the one during EMG, was affected by patients'
compliance, level of education and painful predetermination. We propose using
music during EMG/NCS because it can make the examination more comfortable for the
patient and thus contribute to better quality of this examination.


PMID: 32160171  [Indexed for MEDLINE]
